RFC00003 First version of a vulnerability disclosure policy (#19)
enarx/rfcs: concepts/Vulnerability_disclosure_and_embargo_policy/00004-Vulnerability_disclosure_and_embargo_policy.md

# RFC00004: Vulnerability Disclosure and Embargo Policy
- Authors: [axel simon](github@axelsimon.net)
- Status: [PROPOSED](/README.md#proposed)
- Since: 2020-03-10
- Status Note: under discussion
- Supersedes: N/A
- Start Date: 2020-03-03 (date you started working on this idea)
- Tags: security, infrastructure

## Summary

Describe the security vulnerability disclosure process, including embargoes.

## Motivation

Users and researchers who discover security issues in Enarx need to know that
we welcome their efforts and how we will manage their disclosure. They must
also be able to have an idea of how we use security embargoes.

In other words:
- We want:

>   - to encourage reporting of security issues (ie: “attack us!”)

Reviewer: Not entirely happy about "attack us!".  Maybe ("please let us know about vulnerabilities!")

Author: I liked the idea of putting the same idea in more abstract terms and in more direct terms, which we have used out loud (hence the quotation marks). However, i agree that there must be a nice way to put it than just "attack us!".

  - to make it easy to report security issues
  - to maintain and extend our policy of safe defaults / discouraging people

>   from using bad security practices

Reviewer: s/using/adopting/;

>   from using bad security practices

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  from adopting bad security practices
```

  - to recognise and show appreciation for the time spent researching and
  reporting
  - to make it possible for people who may be at risk to report issues
  pseudonymously

- We need:
  - a clear policy, describing both:
    - how to report; and
    - what to expect during the process
  - a main reporting channel:
    - secondary channels, should the main one fail/not be available/be
  overloaded.
  - a list of people who can be reached directly
  - a place to list security reports and give attribution

## Tutorial

> This RFC aims to provide a set of documents (wiki pages) that describe the 

Reviewer 2: Maybe specify that these will *turn into* wiki pages, with a link to the wiki?

Author: I've linked to https://github.com/enarx/enarx/wiki/Vulnerability-disclosure-and-embargo-policy below even though that doesn't exist yet, but in this specific case it's more of a general explanation of what the RFC is about, so i'm not sure a link is necessary. Does that make sense?
Also, as i'm not 100% sure the documents will be wiki pages (although i think they will), i worded it that way.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This RFC aims to provide a set of documents (ex. wiki pages) that describe the 
```

Enarx vulnerability disclosure policy and the list of security advisories and
 fixes.

The two pages are "Vulnerability Reporting and Embargo Policy" and "Enarx 

> Security Advisories"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Security Advisories."
```

--- 
### Vulnerability Reporting and Embargo Policy
The Enarx project aims to be as safe to use as possible and therefore to 
produce code that is as secure as possible. As such, we welcome any and all 
research into Enarx and appreciate your efforts to take the time to 

> responsibly disclose any issues you find.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
responsibly disclose any vulnerabilities you find.
```
"Issues" could be a broader subset of things that don't require this process, ex. opening a ticket for a bug without security implications.

Author: I see your point. I think "security issues" then would be a good catch-all. Don't you think?

Reviewer 2: Yes, I agree.

Vulnerabilities may be discovered in:
1. Enarx code
2. Enarx dependencies (including compilers)
3. Enarx documentation
4. 3rd party hardware or firmware

All security bugs in Enarx should be reported by email to security@enarx.io. 
This list is delivered to a small security team. Your email will be 
acknowledged within 48 hours, and you’ll receive a more detailed response to 
your email within 96 hours indicating the next steps in handling your report.

>  If you wish, you may encrypt your report using our public key. This key is 

Reviewer 3: I have never been on a security council. Should we _require_ an encrypted email for receiving reports? I'm also not savvy about email security in general...

Reviewer 4: I have also never been on a security council, but having looked at security reporting methods for other companies, it's very much the norm to require a confidential communication channel.

Personally, I'm in favor of enforcing encrypted comms (even if it doesn't end up being encrypted email) as a requirement for vulnerability disclosure, if only as an indication that we take this process seriously. If we don't bother to secure your vulnerability disclosure, what does that say about our project's attitude toward security in general? Not good things, I posit.

Author: This is the crux of the document i think, as has been mentioned elsewhere in the conversations about this RFC: do we go through the usual email reporting method, or do we skip email altogether / treat it as a public channel, and require reporters to *not* use it for anything confidential (cf. [this analysis](https://latacora.micro.blog/2019/07/16/the-pgp-problem.html) if you'd like more details @connorkuehl).
Further to your point Connor, you can't *require* encrypted email. To my knowledge, there is no mechanism to refuse unencrypted email. Even if the recipient's server is configured to refuse any clear text email, the sender's one isn't, and any hops in between either. Email is simply built for a simpler time on the Internet were you didn't need to assume anyone was really malicious.

I entirely agree with your point @mbestavros.

> also on keys.openpgp.org and reproduced below.

Reviewer: Where possible, we aim to provide a response faster than this: these times should be considered maxima.

> also on keys.openpgp.org and reproduced below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
also on keys.openpgp.org and reproduced below.  Where possible, we aim to provide a response faster than this: these times should be considered maxima.
```

> Be sure to use a descriptive subject line to avoid having your report be 

Reviewer: s/Be sure to/Please ensure that you/;

> Be sure to use a descriptive subject line to avoid having your report be 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Please ensure that you use a descriptive subject line to avoid having your report be 
```

missed (as with any publicly listed addresses, it is expected this one will 

> get a lot of spam). After the initial reply to your report, the security team

Reviewer: ```suggestion
receive a lot of spam). After the initial reply to your report, the security team
```

 will endeavor to keep you informed of the progress being made towards a fix 
and full announcement. As recommended by 
[RFPolicy](https://dl.packetstormsecurity.net/papers/general/rfpolicy-2.0.txt),
 these updates will be sent at least every five working days.

> If you have not received a reply to your email within 72 hours, or have not 

Reviewer 2: Is this 72 supposed to be 48 or 96, as above?

Author: Indeed, thanks. It should be 48 hours, i think.

heard from the security team for the past five days, there are a few steps you

>  can take (in order):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 can take (in suggested order):
```

- Contact the current security coordinator (Nathaniel McCallum (public key)) directly.

> - Contact the back-up contact (Mike Bursell (public key)) directly.

Reviewer: We have to decide if we're going to maintain public keys.  Neither @npmccallum nor I currently does.

Author: This is one of the big questions this document raises.

I'm warming up more and more to the idea of treating email like  public channel, and using it (or the chat) to set up more secure communication channels. The question then becomes: what communication channel do we set up?

Reviewer: Does Zulip have a way of managing this, by any chance?

Reviewer 3: I'm not sure if this is exactly what you're looking for, but Zulip supports [sending an email to a (private?) stream](https://zulipchat.com/help/message-a-stream-by-email).

I am not sure if it's bidirectional though, so if the Enarx security council maintains a private stream and they receive a vulnerability disclosure, I am not sure if their responses into the stream will be relayed back by email to the security researcher.

I don't have enough data to know if Zulip is an appropriate place for this in terms of security and privacy.

Author: That's a neat Zulip function, thanks for pointing it out. However documentation says nothing about PGP-encrypted email. This means that the email would be unencrypted until it reaches the Zulip server, at which point it's private (but not E2E-encrypted, as the Zulip server is able to relay the content of the email clearly to the stream). Furthermore, replies to the stream to the initial sender would also be unencrypted, as the Zulip server would not know which public PGP key to encrypt it to. So while cool, this is not really an option for us i fear.

Reviewer: Suggest we close the Zulip thread here, as we've gone with Rocket.

> - Come chat to us on the [chat](https://gitter.im/enarx/community).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Come chat to us on the [chat](https://gitter.im/enarx/community).  You do not need to disclose any information beyond pointing out that you have submitted a vulnerability report and requesting that it be addressed.  In fact we discourage the disclosure of further information via this channel.

Please note that the chat is a public area. When escalating in these venues,
please do not discuss your issue. 

> Simply say that you’re trying to get a hold of someone from the security team.

Reviewer 2: I would even put this in bold.

Author: Good point. Will do.

Should you need to transfer files to us in a private manner, please use 
[Magic Wormhole](https://magic-wormhole.readthedocs.io/en/latest/) or make 
them available over https.

#### Disclosure policy
The Enarx project has a 5 step disclosure process.
1. The security report is received and is assigned a primary handler. 
  This person will coordinate the fix and release process.
2. The problem is confirmed and a list of all affected versions is determined.
3. Code is audited to find any potential similar problems.
4. Fixes are prepared for all releases which are still under maintenance. 
  These fixes are not committed to the public repository but rather held 
  locally pending the announcement.
5. On the embargo date, an announcement is sent to Enarx public channels 
  (chat, website). The changes are pushed to the public repository and new 

>   builds are deployed.

Reviewer 2: This seems to imply there will always be an embargo, but the embargo section states that embargoes should be used sparingly. Perhaps adding details on what a non-embargo process looks like and contrasting it would be useful here, ex. `5. If under embargo, on the embargo date....`

Or maybe just changing this section name to `Disclosure policy in case of embargo`?

Author: Thanks, well spotted. There should really be one procedure, with minor variations in case of embargo. Reworking it to incorporate that.

>   builds are deployed.

Reviewer 4: I think it would be a good idea to specify that code changes get pushed to the repo and built _before_ any embargo press lands. This would allow two things:

1) for us to directly specify the commit/version that patches the vulnerability in the press release, if we want (perhaps this is another thing we want to enforce?);
2) for people reading the disclosure to be able to migrate to that version immediately upon reading about it. We don't want them to come to our repo only to find that it's still building and won't be available for some period of time.

Author: Good points. Incorporating them.

This process can take some time, especially when coordination is required 

> with maintainers of other projects. Every effort will be made to handle the 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
with maintainers of other projects or, for instance, with hardware vendors. Every effort will be made to handle the 
```

bug in as timely a manner as possible, however it is important that we follow
 the release process above to ensure that the disclosure is handled in a 
consistent manner.

Enarx does not provide financial rewards for security disclosures, but the 

> team is open working with reporters of issues on publishing and attribution 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
team is open to working with reporters of issues on publishing and attribution 
```

of vulnerabilities and fixes.  We welcome reports of issues to the project, 
and want to ensure that the community is aware of and celebrates security 
improvements.

#### Embargoes
While the Enarx project aims to follow the highest standards of transparency 
and openness (cf. [Enarx Principles](https://github.com/enarx/enarx.github.io/wiki/Design-principles)), 
handling some security issues may pose such an immediate threat to various 
stakeholders and require coordination between various actors that it cannot 
be made immediately public.

In this case, security issues will fall under an embargo.

An embargo can be called for in various cases:
- when disclosing the issue without simultaneously providing a mitigation 
  would seriously endanger users,
- when producing a fix requires coordinating between multiple actors (such as
   upstream or downstream/dependency projects), or simply
- when proper analysis of the issue and its ramifications demands time.

If we determine that an issue you report requires an embargo, we will discuss 

> this with you and try to find a reasonable expiry date (aka “unembargo date”), 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
this with you and try to find a reasonable expiry date (aka “embargo completion date”), 
```

refer to [this article](https://aliceevebob.com/2018/01/09/meltdown-and-spectre-thinking-about-embargoes-and-disclosures).

Lastly, in no way should an embargo be understood as a means to avoid making 
Enarx faults public. Transparency is paramount to the Enarx project.

--- 
### Enarx Security Advisories
This page lists all security advisories, vulnerabilities and fixes in Enarx 
itself.

For security issues, vulnerabilities and fixes in underlying TEEs, both in 
SDKs and in hardware, please refer to our 
[page on the subject](https://github.com/enarx/enarx/wiki/TEEs-vulnerabilities-and-attacks/).

If you think you have found a security issue with Enarx, we encourage you to 
report it.
To do so, you may follow the process described in the 
[Vulnerability Disclosure and Embargo Policy](https://github.com/enarx/enarx/wiki/Vulnerability-disclosure-and-embargo-policy) page.

#### List of Enarx Security Advisories
N/A

--- 

## Reference

Much of this RFC is inspired by the [Rust Security Policy](https://www.rust-lang.org/policies/security),
as well as [RFPolicy 2.0](https://dl.packetstormsecurity.net/papers/general/rfpolicy-2.0.txt), 

> which it refers to.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to which it refers.
```

## Drawbacks

- The process as currently described makes use of email and OpenPGP. PGP 
  email is notoriously hard to get right, even more so over time.

## Rationale and alternatives

- The most basic alternative is not to have a policy and to simply wait for
people to disclose their findings. This does nothing to provide guarantees 
to researchers and users that their work and time will be respected and to 

> encourage further disclosures.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
encourage further disclosures.  We do not believe that such an approach would be consistent with the transparency and openness goals of the Enarx project.
```

## Prior art

Rust process mentioned above.

## Unresolved questions
As mentioned, encrypted email is not a good solution. It’s really hard to get 
PGP encrypted email right, it offers no Perfect Forward Secrecy (PFS) and key 
management is horrible (cf. [this analysis](https://latacora.micro.blog/2019/07/16/the-pgp-problem.html), 
for instance). However, in the case of just offering a way for people outside 
Enarx to send sensitive information with _some_ security, it may be 
acceptable. 
Key management is still hard: how many copies of the private key? where do 
they live? how do we revocate if maintainers leave project? etc.

In light of this:
- Can we *not* offer email as a way communication channel while remaining 

> universal enough to allow everyone to report security issues in Enarx?

Reviewer: I'm now in contact with someone from the Github org to find out if there's something that they're working on that we could use (and the creation of which we could be help with).

Author: That is excellent and would probably be a superior way to do this, if the feature is done right.

> - Should we treat email as a public channel, similar to our chat?

Reviewer: There's a distinction, but we should be careful.

Author: A distinction in nature or in risk?
At the end of the day, i believe more and more strongly that we should treat email as a public channel, at least in terms of anything that might need confidentiality. It may not be entirely technically true, but it fosters the right attitude towards the levels of privacy and confidentiality one can expect from email overall.

Reviewer: Agreed.

# RFC00004: Vulnerability Disclosure and Embargo Policy
- Authors: [axel simon](github@axelsimon.net)
- Status: [PROPOSED](/README.md#proposed)
- Since: 2020-03-10
- Status Note: under discussion
- Supersedes: N/A

> - Start Date: 2020-03-03 (date you started working on this idea)

Reviewer 3: ~~(date you started working on this idea)~~

- Tags: security, infrastructure

## Summary

> Describe the security vulnerability disclosure process, including embargoes.

Reviewer 3: ~~Describe~~ -> A description of

produce code that is as secure as possible. As such, we welcome any and all 
research into Enarx and appreciate your efforts to take the time to 
responsibly disclose any issues you find.

Vulnerabilities may be discovered in:
1. Enarx code
2. Enarx dependencies (including compilers)
3. Enarx documentation
4. 3rd party hardware or firmware

All security bugs in Enarx should be reported to the security team. 
To do so, please reach out either by email at security@enarx.io or on our
[chat](https://chat.enarx.io) stating you'd like to report a security
issue, but **without divulging details**.

We treat both email and chat as a public channels, so simply saying that
you’re trying to get a hold of someone from the security team is fine.

From then, we will establish a more secure area where the issue can be
discussed, in the form of a 
[Github Security Advisory](https://help.github.com/en/github/managing-security-vulnerabilities/about-github-security-advisories).

You will be invited to join this private area to discuss specifics. Doing so 
allows us to start with a high level of confidentiality and relax it if the 
issue is less critical, moving to work on the fix in the open.

> This methods provides several other advantages :
> 1. It avoids email, which is unfortunately very hard dificult to use securely
> 2. It makes it possible to privately collaborate to fix the vulnerability in 
> a temporary private fork
> 3. It makes it possible to draft a security advisory, and use the draft to 
> privately discuss the impact of the vulnerability on the project.
> 4. It makes it possible to easily publish the security advisory and alert the 
> community of the vulnerability

Reviewer 5: Suggest the following to reduce wordiness and address some minor grammatical issues:
```suggestion
This method provides several other advantages:
1. Avoids email, which is unfortunately very difficult to use securely
2. Enables private collaboration to fix the vulnerability in 
a temporary private fork
3. Facilitates drafting a security advisory and using the draft to 
privately discuss the impact of the vulnerability on the project
4. Simplifies publishing the security advisory and alerting the 
community of the vulnerability
```

Reviewer: +1

Your initial contact will be acknowledged within 48 hours, and you’ll receive 
a more detailed response within 96 hours indicating the next steps in handling 
your report.

After the initial reply to your report, the security team  will endeavor to 
keep you informed of the progress being made towards a fix and full 
announcement. As recommended by 
[RFPolicy](https://dl.packetstormsecurity.net/papers/general/rfpolicy-2.0.txt),
 these updates will be sent at least every five working days.

> If you have not received a reply to your initial contact within 72 hours, or

Reviewer 2: There's still a discrepancy here between 96 vs. 72.

Author: Thanks, resolving it now in favour of 96 hours.

have not heard from the security team for the past five days, there are a few
steps you can take (in suggested order):
- Contact the current security coordinator (Nathaniel McCallum, aka

> [npmacallum](https://github.com/npmccallum)) directly

Reviewer 3: Link text typo, should be: "npmccallum"

> [npmacallum](https://github.com/npmccallum)) directly
> - Contact the back-up contact (Mike Bursell, aka 
> [MikeCamel](https://github.com/mikecamel)) directly  
>   In both these cases, you can reach out
>   - by email
>   - by chat
> - Come talk to us on the [chat](https://chat.enarx.io).

Reviewer 5: I thought it was a little ambiguous who to reach out to on the chat should the reporter bypass Nathaniel and Mike, though realistically if they reached out via the chat in the first place the team would see the disclosure information. 
```suggestion
[npmccallum](https://github.com/npmccallum)) directly
- Contact the back-up contact (Mike Bursell, aka 
[MikeCamel](https://github.com/mikecamel)) directly  
  In both these cases, you can reach out
  - by email
  - by chat
- Contact the team as a whole on the [chat](https://chat.enarx.io).
```

Reviewer: > though realistically if they reached out via the chat in the first place the team would see the disclosure information.

The intention is to encourage initial disclosure of the fact that there _is_ a vulnerability, and then move to confidential channel to disclose what it is.

4. Fixes are prepared for all releases which are still under maintenance. 
  4.1 In case of embargo, these fixes are not committed to the public 
  repository but rather held in a private fork pending the announcement.
5. The changes are pushed to the public repository and new builds are deployed.
  An announcement is sent to Enarx public channels (chat, website), once
  these are available.

This process can take some time, especially when coordination is required 
with maintainers of other projects or, for instance, with hardware vendors. 
Every effort will be made to handle the bug in as timely a manner as possible, 
however it is important that we follow the release process above to ensure 
that the disclosure is handled in a consistent manner.

Enarx does not provide financial rewards for security disclosures, but the 
team is open to working with reporters of issues on publishing and attribution 
of vulnerabilities and fixes. We welcome reports of issues to the project, 
and want to ensure that the community is aware of and celebrates security 
improvements.

#### Embargoes
While the Enarx project aims to follow the highest standards of transparency 

> and openness (cf. [Enarx Principles](https://github.com/enarx/enarx.github.io/wiki/Design-principles)), 

Reviewer 3: new link is: https://github.com/enarx/enarx/wiki/Design-principles

Author: Thanks, correcting this.

## Rationale and alternatives

- The most basic alternative is not to have a policy and to simply wait for
people to disclose their findings. This does nothing to provide guarantees 
to researchers and users that their work and time will be respected and to 
encourage further disclosures.  We do not believe that such an approach would be consistent with the transparency and openness goals of the Enarx project.
- Offer full reporting of security vulnerabilities by email, as many other 
projects do, and which is what many researchers will be used to.  
However, encrypted email is not a good solution. The only usable standard for 
encrypted email is OpenPGP, which suffers from very poor usability, offers no 
Perfect Forward Secrecy (PFS) and imposes complex and painful key management 
on the recipients as well as the senders. Cf. [this analysis](https://latacora.micro.blog/2019/07/16/the-pgp-problem.html), 
for more insights.

## Prior art

Rust process mentioned above.

## Unresolved questions
Can this process be seen as contradictory with our intention to minimise the 
use of embargo, and can we make clearer that we don't intend to make every 

> security report secret?

Reviewer 5: From what I've seen in cybersecurity, many security researchers are willing to work through private disclosures in order to address the vulnerability as long as the team is responsive. I think this document as a whole presents the team as receptive, so simply following that procedure should work for most researchers. Perhaps publishing an explicit timeline for public disclosure of the details of a vulnerability would reconcile transparency with giving Enarx users time to apply patches to their systems? In order to avoid becoming too prescriptive, this timeline could start after publication of the patch that addresses the vulnerability.

Author: Thanks @blazebissar, interesting. I think an explicit timeline for public disclosure might be for a further improvement of this RFC, i'd like to get this one out the door. (And we might need more experience with the process first too.)
